Alright, in this video we are going to
take a look at the data model we are
going to be building. Now I'm going to
cheat a little bit. I'm going to use a
tool called JDL Studio and this is a
piece of software from JHipster team
and gives us a chance to model it. So
we're going to go through the data model.
I'm going to look at a recipe
application we're going to be using for
our little example here of the
application that we're going to be
building. And what I want to establish in
this video is the data model that we're
going to build. So we're not going to get
into JPA just yet. All the different
options there, but we are going to move
forward and use this model that we're
establishing here for the relationships, the
entity, the object model that we're going
to be creating. So I'm going to toggle
over now and show you the application
that we're going to build, or an example
of the application I'm going to build.
We're not building the exact same application but we are going to build a web-like
application just using this as an
example for a recipe application. And
then we'll get in and look at the object
model that we're going to use for our
little recipe web application. Alright I
want to take a little closer look at our
recipe application. And I did a quick
search and found most popular iOS recipe
application and this is a screenshot. And
that's kind of what we're going to
emulate. I'm just using this as an
example and so we need to model this and
we're going to focus on modeling it
properly in a JPA sort of way or more
of an OO sort of way. So I'm not going to
worry about the database per se. I'm more
looking at the object model. So right
away I have a recipe object. I can see
that I'm going to need a recipe object
and that's going to have attributes like
an image, prep time, cook time, serving,
source, URL. It's going to have a
difficulty and a rating. So these are all
attributes of a recipe object. Now that
recipe is going to have multiple
ingredients. So we have a whole list of
ingredients and it looks like the
ingredient is going to have a unit of
measure and a description. So pretty simple there then we have
directions which looks like it's just
one giant text field. So
that's kind of giving us some clues
about our data model. I'm going to toggle
over here. Jump over to Chrome and what
I'm using here is JDL Studio. So this is
from the JHipster project. JHipster is kind of a code generator
built around AngularJS and Spring Boot
and so it gives us a nice Spring
back-end and Angular CRUD type
application. I'm not going to show you
JHipster right now but I am showing
you the JDL Studio because I wanted to
show you the entities and their
relationships and how they are going to do this
and then we're going to go through and
build this out in JPA in the upcoming
videos of the course. But I want to talk
about what we're building for
our application. So the first thing we
have is the Recipe entity. You can see
there in the top left hand side, lines 1
through 10 we have the entity defined. So
this is setting up the property names
and their datatypes. So on here I have
prep time, cook time, servings, the source
as a String, URL as a String, directions
as a String and a difficulty and then
also image as a byte array. And you can
see here on the difficulty I'm taking
the opportunity to use an enum.
So we're going to use an enumeration
there and see how that gets to play in
JPA.
Now we also have a single notes field
and you can see there I'm creating a
one-to-one relationship from recipe to
notes and where it gets a little more
interesting is the relationships from
recipe to ingredient and then I guess
it'd be the third column there. I'm going
from left to right. So you have recipe
then you can see the notation there
right above a gradient. The one dash star,
so that's a one-to-many relationship and
I'm going to have a description amount
and then we have a one-to-one
relationship with UnitOfMeasure. So
that unit measure is just going to be a
String that will define and then finally,
if you look at the far left, a category
box. We are saying between recipe and
category, we're going to have a
many-to-many relationship. So right
above the category box you can see the star
dot star
or star - star that is indicating a
many-to-many relationship and we got a
mistake there, departmentName, we want to
say categoryName. And you can see the
JDL is actually, we can even do a
required property but
I'm not going to be generating entities
from this. I'm going to do it all by hand
and step you through that. So let's
toggle back over and double check our
little application. So you can see I have
a description there. Did I do the
description? I did not. So let's add in
description and you can see how the
entity changed right away there on the
screen. This is a really nice modeling tool that I like to use. If I just need to
model out a simple data model it's kind
of almost like cheating.
So let's come back and double check our
screen. So we get description, cook
time, servings and source URL, difficulty
in reading and I am going to save
reading for you guys as an assignment
further down the road. So I'm not going
to add that in and I am going to skip
over nutritional information. Let's
double check this model. So Recipe, that's
going to be the primary object that
we'll be dealing with. So when we're
working with multiple recipes of course
in the system, that's going to have a
difficulty notes, it's going to have many
ingredients and each Ingredient is going
to have one UnitOfMeasure if that makes
sense and then we will be able to assign
multiple different categories to our
recipe. So we'll have a many-to-many
relationship there. So we could bring up
recipes for a specific category or query
a category and get recipes that way. So
it definitely be a two-way relationship
there. Alright so that is the data
model that we are going to be using. Going forward, we are going to go step by
step and build the JPA entities for this.
I'm going to show you exactly how to do
that but I want to establish first just
the object relational model or the
object model that we're building. Then
we're going to get into the object
relational mapping via JPA and with the
Hibernate implementation and we'll get
this implemented and we'll have
Hibernate happy to take data into our
recipe application.